---
layout: post
title: "Week 10: Overall thoughts on midterm reflection and group project"
---
This week we had midterm reflections and group project work. I liked doing the midterm reflection because I am someone who is more comfortable with writing their thoughts rather than saying them out loud, so it was nice to have been given time to write out my reflection instead of saying it in front of the whole class. As I reflected I realized I had thoughts and opinions that developed during this semester, but they only felt truly fleshed out and complete as I wrote them down. An example is I realized the most important factor in how I view open source projects, whether they are "good" or not, is whether the product is ultimately something that is user-friendly and powerful. This is in comparison to what we have been learning in class - e.g. looking at projects from a contributer's point of view. Perhaps this is because I still have more faith in the core maintainers / contributors to a project, and less faith / confidence in individual contributors like myself. This makes me hope I slowly gain the skills I need to be able to meaningfully contribute to projects / my team at work.

<!--more-->

As for our group project, I became sick on Tuesday so I was not able to contribute a lot to my team on Wednesday and most of the week. I did however finally solve my installation issue that I have been facing since day 1, so I'm happy to report that my team finally has all members with working installations. I look forward to finally being able to make contributions and testing out Jarvis as a software (I spent most of my time previously either trying to troubleshoot my MacOS installation errors and testing out Jarvis on my team members' computers). I have some downloaded logs from my failed installation attempts, but to be honest I am still unsure what it was exactly that resolved my issue. I guess this is the double edged sword nature of software that works for multiple OS platforms, but this just means more problems for my group and I to solve that can hopefully make things easier for future contributors.