---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: Git and the Add-On Activity"
---

I enjoyed going through the Git activity. Although I have used Git in my past CS class, Git still scares me, especially when I have to work with an upstream and origin (my fork) branch at the same time. I also never really understood how to deal with some merge conflict cases, so I was really glad when we went through how some Git messages appear because of the way our Git is set up. I've seen the rebase.false option a few times and I never understood how to solve it, so I'm glad we went through that example of turning that option off. I look forward to learning more advanced Git techniques, particularly ones related with settings. When I first started using Git, I found myself deleting the git repo on my local device quite a few times out of frustration. I hope to learn how to roll back on commits confidently and sync up branches. 
<!--more-->
As for the Add-On activity, my team is making solid progress. As of today (Wednesday Feb 8) We have a working demo for the browser extension, which currently simply injects some CSS into the active tab. We are looking to add more features, but I am glad that we have a working demo already to make incremental changes. We picked the MIT license because that seems to be a very reliable but also safe option, since it makes us (as the original creators) not liable for anything, should someone manages to use our code in a malicious way. We also have a very simple CONTRIBUTING file and will work on our Code of Conduct soon. 

Some problems I'm facing personally with the Add-On activity is how I am struggling to debug things, because I did not realize the html page is the popup that appears when I click on the browser extension button (looking back, it's literally in the popup folder, so I do find myself silly for this mistake). Thus, some of the CSS changes I was trying to make ended up changing the CSS of the browser extension pop up instead. I am also finding it a little hard to debug with console.log print statements, since they don't seem to appear in my main tab's console. I hope to solve these issues with my teammates.

My biggest contribution right now is probably writing up the most basic functional parts of the demo. I always think that it is most important to have something visible to work with ASAP, so I went ahead and wrote the demo after we decided our project idea through email. My philosophy is that doing this can never be a bad idea, as I am open to my teammates changing my code, or not even using it. 
