---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: Discussion on Cathedral and the Bazaar"
---

The Cathedral and the Bazaar discussion was interesting because I got to hear other people's experiences with their journey in learning how they liked to code. The most memorable lesson for me is "plan to throw one away; you will, anyhow", because it really encapsulates my biggest takeaway from my coding journey so far. I agree with how "if you want to get it right, be ready to start over at least once", because thinking that you are going to solve a problem on your first attempt is egoistic and unrealistic. Having that mentality also makes you spend unnecessary time on approaches that do not work, or are not optimal. I mentioned in class how I could relate to this lesson when I leetcode and spend too much time on an approach that obviously wasn't working. I've learnt to drop my ego, take a short break, and then restart on problems that I get stuck on. The 5 minutes break allow me to reset my mental state and get rid of frustration, and usually I become a lot more productive afterwards.

I also felt this experience when doing my first personal web app project, because it was my first time coding in Node.js, I spent a long time researching on how to do a task correctly. I wanted my code to run without bugs, especially because I was at some point just copying code from Youtube tutorials on Node.js / similar web app tutorials (for context, I was trying to create a chatbot that fetches from various APIS). Hours later, I realized that following tutorials defeated the purpose of my project, which was to learn how to code and create a project by myself. I gave up with my approach of copying code from videos, and instead started looking at why and how the code in the tutorials worked. This approach made me understand the problem that I was trying to solve (e.g. how my app was fetching data from the Google maps API), and then ultimately allowed me to write my own approach. Even then, I know that my approach wasn't the most optimal, or clean, but it didn't matter - I gained important experience. In the book, it states that "the second time, maybe you know enough to do it right", and I certainly agree. For my next side project, writing out the data fetching part of the program went by a lot faster.


<!--more-->

As for my group project, since we finally cleared up our installation errors, we have been able to track and plan what to do for the next few weeks. We made issues on the repo, and the maintainers also responded to our issues. We also made a PR for installation FAQs. I was impressed by the group working on Linux, just because the project is so big and well known. For next week, we will aim to work on another (probably more difficult) issue, since the issues we have looked at have been relatively simple (e.g. typos or README).
