---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: Tidepool"
---

This week's guest lecture was interesting because we not only got to learn more about open-source software, but also specifically how it impacts the healthcare industry in particular. Hearing about Christopher's personal stories of diabetes made Tidepool's influence even more impactful for me, because now I can easily imagine how other users can benefit from such solutions. I asked in the chat what motivates Christopher to continue coding, because this has been a question that's been on my mind with every single open-source project. His answer mostly had to do with the scope and impact of Tidepool: knowing that his work will ultimately allow others to benefit, and watching users and people benefit, drive him to work and improve this project. I thought that was interesting, and it relates back to our Cathedral and the Bazaar conversation on "passion" from the week before. 

With projects like Tidepool, the number one concern is privacy of data, and Christopher talked a lot about how data is made anonymous. I imagine this to remain as one major obstacle for open-source software to takeover the healthcare industry. With every technological advancement, there will always be a vocal minority that protests against it. Since the community of diabetic people is huge, this would become more of a concern, not to mention greedy private companies and lawmakers who would also stand in the way against competitors. Honestly, I'm not sure what the solution would be to solve this, since paranoia over data privacy seems to only be growing with social media taking over the world right now, and countries straight up banning apps such as TikTok. 

I do however want to see more open-source projects take over the health industry, especiallly if we can somehow incentivize healthcare professionals to join. The US healthcare system is scary, often times I would joke about how if I were to ever get into an accident, my friends should call an Uber for me as opposed to an ambulance to save me 2000 dollars. Even telling my friends abroad about my visits at local pharmacies made interesting experiences: my friends (who are now doctors in the UK), would call the procedures I was put through "a scam only to prevent you from sueing the healthcare clinic" (e.g. doing unnecessary ultrasounds and xrays).

<!--more-->

As for our project, so far, our attempts at making additions have been okay. I say okay and not great because at the end of the day, we haven't made any ground-breaking additions to Jarvis yet, as we originally intended, but have focused more on READMEs/ installation updates and simple features such as inconsistencies with rebooting the user's computer through Jarvis. I think our major obstacle right now would be to decide on a major feature that we would like to work on before the semester ends, to truly make a significant difference to the project. However, since Jarvis is really just a bunch of features thrown together into a terminal assistant, fixing existing features often comes with many package installation errors and time to fix, so we need to keep that in account when discussing time management. I think the way to solve this is to start logging how long each feature takes, in terms of hours or effort, so we have a better gauge of what we can achieve before the semester ends, and pick the right feature to work on to make a meaningful difference. 
