---
layout: post
title: "Week 13: Open Source"
---

Our discussion about open source within industries was interesting to me because I learnt how open source has been slowly changing in terms of how they are being used by other business models. Software consulting in particular stood out to me because it makes sense to outsource to other people to come up with methods to incorporate open source software in their business. As we near the end of the semester, I realize that looking for good open source projects take time, and making sure you pick the right one which will remain updated and communicative is most certainly very important to businesses as they invest in their tools. Peace of mind (middle men) similarly makes a lot of sense to me, as for why they are needed, because it solves the biggest issue that comes up after investing your company into using an open source project: by paying a middle man, the open source project is guaranteed to be updated and kept useful in the future.

<!--more-->

As for my group project, I would say so far my biggest accomplishment has been helping out with team's pull requests. We were all trying to solve an issue of changing the font colors of the terminal commands of Jarvis, but because the source code is separated into many plugins and other files, it was difficult to look into what we should edit to make the changes. This is especially because we found that some files simply had their colors hard coded, while others did not. Eventually, I did eventually help my team find out the lines of code to edit. 

A failure that we have so far is probably not being able to pique the maintainer's interest enough for them to communicate with us regularly. While they might be busy, I feel that if we had some groundbreaking changes or ideas, the maintainer would probably be more communicative. This is of course a stretch.

Lastly, some surprises of this project is again how loosely tied together everything seems to be. The core idea behind Jarvis is a lot simpler than I thought, each plugin idea is just a plugin.py file, that will be called automatically when entered the command line, should the plugin file exist. What appeared to be a very complicated source code to look at, now looks a lot simpler and readable. I guess this is what spending time and having patience does to you.