---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: Thoughts on Browser Extension Project"
---

Overall, I am quite satisfied with how our project ended up. I think I learnt more about myself as a team member, and areas where I can improve on. I learnt that I like to work and do things earlier, especially with responsibilities that I can do independently. For this project, because our extension idea is relatively simple, I wrote most of the code before discussing with my teammates on how things should or could be implemented. This was after we decided on the general idea and purpose of the project. My rationale is that I think it doesn't hurt to produce output, and this output can always be disregarded or altered by my team members later if needed. However, I realize that more communication is probably always good, especially if the intervals between members communicating is regulated. I tend to get too in the zone while I am programming, but I need to remember that while I am coding, my team members might be confused by the code suddenly changing a lot over the 10 hours. I think a simple way to improve on this is to have some sort of scheduled standup, where I communicate my intentions for the day and whether I am / was stuck on any issues to my team members. 

In terms of my contributions to this project, I wrote the core logic of the extension (using localStorage to store data, writing the HTML and Javascript), and also decided on the MIT license and wrote most of the Code of Conduct and Contributing. I volunteered for most of the work because this is my preferred way of working. My teammates then helped me out with fixing code bugs, improving UI and simplifying parts of the written documents (e.g. README, CONTRIBUTING), which I am thankful for.


Some other new things I learnt include better debugging skills through external research (mostly Stack Overflow) and working with the Tabs API to work around browser permissions with the active Mozilla Firefox tab. I also became much more confident with git and merge conflicts. This is especially after I experimented with editing a .md file on github.com such that there would be a merge conflict if I pulled to my local, and then trying to pull and resolve the merge conflict in VSCode. Lastly, I think the team working style that I would enjoy most is one where each member gets delegated for one functionality and task, so that they can work independently until they need help or other opinions (since the other members should also be able to voice their input).

On a related note, watching other teams present was enjoyable because some extensions were really refreshing to me. In particular, team 4's Youtube Interface Customizer browser extension was cool and I could see myself actually using it. Their presentation was passionate and I really like how you can customize the scrubber and progress bar. It reminds me of older software that allowed user to make visual customizations for everything back then. Nowadays, most software (especially ones made by Apple) are going towards less visual customization.