---
layout: post
title: "Week 14: Enhancing / Fixing Features of Jarvis"
---

This week unfortunately I was sick for both days so I could not get to class. However, I made sure to catch up on Friday to catch up on project work. I'm happy to report that I just submitted my first PR to this project today.

I worked mostly on an existing feature in Jarvis that allows users to search for a country to get details of that country such as currency, currency sign, population and more. However, I realized two things: the plugin was using a deprecated versiono of an API, and that the feature straight up did not work. This was due to an incorrect destructuring of the JSON get request object. Fixing that involved looking at the documentation for the API, and changing it so that it uses a version that is maintained.

I also added a feature by fetching data from another API (http://api.worldbank.org/) to find the income level of any country. I added this feature to the same plugin (since they're both country related) and now Jarvis correctly shows details of any country, plus their income level.

This fixes two issues that our team submitted regarding this plugin / idea of Jarvis showing details of countries.

Submitting this PR felt good because we have always wanted to enhance features of Jarvis, rather than only bugfix, and this is something that I mentioned oin previous blog posts. I'm glad that we found an API that uses a public key, since we figured that anything that uses a private key would not work for Jarvis. The maintainer has been kind and respectful in their comments for our previous PR, so I hope they will accept this PR soon.