---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Guest lecture and team progress."
---

Jim’s guest speaking lecture was pretty interesting to me. I was really intrigued by his background and explanations of how tech used to be in the past. The fact that he had to self-learn how to use the command line, because that was all they had back in the day, blew my mind. This is especially because in today’s world, new students of CS might struggle to find one language or tool to learn, out of all the ones possible. I was a bit lost when Jim went over past technologies and machines, such as the “apple 2”, but nevertheless I found the entire guest lecture interesting. CS classes in college have never been focused too much on history, and I think Operating Systems was the only class that covered the most, but I can see how learning CS history can not only motivate people to learn more, but also to improve their fundamentals. In his thoughtful response, Jim talked about how learning CS history can make one’s knowledge go from “magic” (and just accept that’s just how to things work) to understanding how and why things are the way they are today (after years of technological change). I get his point of view now, and I’d be very happy to trade some of the numerical CS classes (discrete math) for a history-focused CS class.

<!--more-->

So far, I think I am satisfied with my group’s project so far, given we are still in the early phases of our project. We put effort into researching about Jarvis, an open-source command line assistant, and its various features. Some features include rock-paper-scissors, a graphical calculator, and geo-tracking-related information. During the process, we found some minor bugs that we could fix in the future, and we decided to focus on improving / bug fixing the language translation part of Jarvis as our first task. I think we could have probably done more if we didn’t run into so many installation errors on our devices, but once we are over this bottleneck, our progress and speed should hopefully improve. This is an interesting project and honestly, the functions that we could add to Jarvis are endless. That’s why I’m still pretty excited to work on this project with my group, and I think everyone shares the same mindset. 











