---
layout: post
title: "Week 1: Introduction!"
---

When I think about the phrase "open source", I think about developer posts I read on social media that are trying to promote a certain program. Those developers are usually promising a high degree of transparency and trust with how they will handle their users' data and privacy. I imagine this to be the biggest advantage of open source software, by having access to the source code itself, consumers know fully how their input and data is being used within the software (assuming it does not get exploited). Developers can also spot potential exploits and work together to create a better product overall. With this comes the disadvantage of open source software, and why companies might choose to write closed source software instead. With your source code out in the public, it leaves your program susceptible to exploits and attacks. This is especially dangerous for large corporations handling the data of many users across the world. Maintaining open source software probably takes more effort, with anyone being able to contribute to a project.

I registered for this course because I have never contributed to an open source software before. Not to mention most of my projects have been on a very small scale (mostly done alone), so I am excited to contribute to something that many people are using. 

Open source software that I regularly use include Firefox (I only learnt today that it was open source) as an alternative to Chrome when I need to test my web apps and need to constantly delete cache, VLC media player, Brave (another web browser - great for downloading Youtube content to play in Picture in Picture mode on IOS), and 7zip ( unzipping files back when I used a Windows device).  