---
layout: post
title: Week 2 
---

The Code of Conduct exercise was interesting because we got to see how projects regulate and suggest behaviors that other contributors should follow. For the Go project, I think the main benefit of having this document is that when there are offenders (e.g a contributor who is verbally aggressive to others), there are clear means to deal with that situation. By writing out the standards and things that are not accepted, it is easier to justify punishment or some sort of resolution. Thus, I think other projects, especially ones with less people to do conduct moderation, could greatly benefit from this. On a slightly related note, I especially like how the Go developers mention that it is reasonable for people to disagree with each other, as long as they disagree and communicate in a respectful manner. 

---
As for the differences between the two Code of Conducts (Go vs Contributor Covenant), I noticed that while they have the same text template for the "Standards" section which details the type of behaviors that are acceptable and unacceptable, the Go project goes one step further by specifying "Gopher values" that are meant to be core values people in the Go project should have. Some examples include being charitable, being thoughtful and constructive. While these are somewhat implied from the aforementioned Standards section, I think the Go project included these values so that their workers have concrete examples (in this case, values they should have) to keep in mind, as opposed to the same copied and pasted Code of Conduct template used between the two projects (and likely more). These values also have in depth examples, for example under the "constructive" value, there are examples of how one should not be snarky, and that they should also not derail from the main conversation. This probably makes it easier for the team to be cohesive and truly behave in accordance to the Standards section.

Another difference I can spot is that the Go project is written in a much more "human" and emotional tone, whereas the other one (Contributor Covenant) is much more machine like. The Go project reminds the reader how disagreement is a natural thing that can arise between two people, and that the important thing is how they resolve it in a respectful manner. The other code of conduct is written as if it contains rules for a machine to follow. I'm guessing that the Go project again did this to make their readers feel more emotionally connected to the cause and reason as to why this document was written, creating more reasons to follow the rules.

---
The Code of Conduct for Eclipse can be found here: https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php

I think this one is different in the sense that it is much more specific and serious when referring to behaviors that are not tolerated. For exmaple, this Code of Conduct makes references to how retaliation is not allowed, whereas the Go project did not. This is probably because the Eclipse foundation is one that has many small user made projects under its name, but with Go it appears that there are more corporations using it. Therefore, Eclipse benefits from having more rules and stricter enforcement for its more diverse -and therefore creating more chances of code violations- community, whereas Go contributors are probably already subject to more Codes of Conducts under other corporations or projects. Another reason could again simply be to have further concrete examples to make punishments more efficient and non-negotiable.

---
As for Sugar Lab's Code of Conduct, it differs from Go's Code of Conduct because Sugar Labs has tools and projects meant to be used by children to aid their learning. Therefore, there are sections that are focused on how material and behaviors should be appropriate for parents, children and instructors to be comfortable with, which are specific examples and groups of people not as individually emphasized in Go's Code of Conduct.

The Code of Condcut is based off the Ubuntu Code of Conduct.

---
The open source project I picked is VLC media player. Their Code of Conduct can be found here: https://wiki.videolan.org/Code_of_Conduct


This one differs from the other two by having specific disciplinary actions for each type of community one could have a violation in (e.g mailing list, wiki or forums). Examples include 24 hr bans for mailing list violations, or developers losing repo access for 7 days from every third violation. This difference could be perhaps due to the team being more focused and strict on disciplinary action, or that there have been too many past offense so they decided to include concrete examples to further deter potential offenders.


---
Lastly, the activity we did in class involving the add-on activity was interesting. Even though I have never worked or developed with Firefox before, working with my teammates made the tutorial a lot easier to follow than if I had done it myself. Some common mistakes that my teammates and I found and helped each other fix includes the jpeg file not being recongized (we needed to use jpg instead), and accessing the about:debugging page. What surprised me was how well documented the tutorial and Firefox code was. Instead of just telling us to copy and paste some code and giving us a general overview of what the code does, the tutorial goes in depth with what each line does, which I really appreciated as I have not coded in Javascript in a while. Learning about how licenses work and how behaviors and contributions are kept by rules was interesting, and I was surprised to see how few contributors (and how little code some contributed!) there were for the open source project we picked - Ublock Origin. It reminded me of the value of concise and functional code.
